README.md, before:

# go-fastly-cli

CLI tool for uploading and diffing local/remote Fastly VCL

> Note: this supersedes the individual tools: [ero](https://github.com/Integralist/ero) and [lataa](https://github.com/Integralist/lataa)

## Install

```bash
go get github.com/integralist/go-fastly-cli
```

## Usage

```bash
fastly <flags> diff <options>
fastly <flags> upload <options>
```

> flags: settings common to both commands  
> options: unique to the specific command

Flags:

```bash
fastly -help

  -activate string
        specify Fastly service 'version' to activate
  -debug
        show any error/diff output + debug logs
  -dir string
        vcl directory to compare files against 
  -help
        show available flags
  -match string
        regex for matching vcl directories (will also try: VCL_MATCH_DIRECTORY)
  -service string
        your service id (fallback: FASTLY_SERVICE_ID) 
  -skip string
        regex for skipping vcl directories (will also try: VCL_SKIP_DIRECTORY) 
  -status string
        retrieve status for the specified Fastly service 'version'
  -token string
        your fastly api token (fallback: FASTLY_API_TOKEN) 
  -version
        show application version
```

Diff Options:

```bash
fastly diff -help

Usage of diff:
  -version string
        specify Fastly service 'version' to verify against
```

Upload Options:

```bash
fastly upload -help

Usage of upload:
  -clone string
        specify Fastly service 'version' to clone from before uploading to
  -get-latest
        get latest Fastly service version and its active status
  -settings string
        get settings (Default TTL & Host) for specified Fastly service version (version number or latest)
  -version string
        specify non-active Fastly service 'version' to upload to
  -use-latest
        use latest Fastly service version to upload to (presumes not activated)
```

## Environment Variables

The use of environment variables help to reduce the amount of flags required by the `fastly` CLI tool.

For example, I always diff against a 'stage' service in our Fastly account and so I don't want to have to put in the same credentials all the time.

Below is a list of environment variables this tool supports:

* `FASTLY_API_TOKEN` (`-token`)
* `FASTLY_SERVICE_ID` (`-service`)
* `VCL_DIRECTORY` (`-dir`)
* `VCL_MATCH_DIRECTORY` (`-match`)
* `VCL_SKIP_DIRECTORY` (`-skip`)

> Use the relevant CLI flags to override these values

## Makefile

To compile binaries for multiple OS architectures:

```bash
make compile
```

To start up a dockerized development environment (inc. Vim):

```bash
make dev
```

To install a local binary for testing (darwin):

```bash
make install
```

To remove all compiled binaries, vim files and containers:

```bash
make clean
```

## Examples

```bash
# view status for the specified service version
fastly -status 123

# activate specified service version
fastly -activate 123

# diff local version against lastest remote version
fastly diff

# diff local version against specific remote version
fastly diff -version 123

# enable debug mode
# this will mean debug logs are displayed
# for 'diff' this will mean diff output is displayed as well
fastly -debug diff -version 123

# view latest service version
fastly upload -get-latest

# view service settings
fastly upload -settings 123

# upload local files to remote service version
# token and service automatically picked up from environment
fastly upload -version 123

# token and service explicitly set
fastly -service xxx -token xxx upload -version 123
```

## TODO

* Test Suite
* Ability to diff two remote services (not just local against a remote)
* Ability to upload an individual file (not just pattern matched list of files)
* Refactor flags (most flags under 'upload' subcommand should be moved out)

Commit message:

Move specific flags/behaviour out from upload subcommand

README.md, after:

# go-fastly-cli

CLI tool for uploading and diffing local/remote Fastly VCL

> Note: this supersedes the individual tools: [ero](https://github.com/Integralist/ero) and [lataa](https://github.com/Integralist/lataa)

## Install

```bash
go get github.com/integralist/go-fastly-cli
```

## Usage

```bash
fastly <flags> [diff <options>]
fastly <flags> [upload <options>]
```

Flags:

```bash
fastly -help

  -activate string
        specify Fastly service 'version' to activate
  -debug
        show any error/diff output + debug logs
  -dir string
        vcl directory to compare files against 
  -help
        show available flags
  -match string
        regex for matching vcl directories (will also try: VCL_MATCH_DIRECTORY)
  -service string
        your service id (fallback: FASTLY_SERVICE_ID) 
  -settings string
        get settings (Default TTL & Host) for specified Fastly service version (version number or latest)
  -skip string
        regex for skipping vcl directories (will also try: VCL_SKIP_DIRECTORY) 
  -status string
        retrieve status for the specified Fastly service 'version' (try: 'latest')
  -token string
        your fastly api token (fallback: FASTLY_API_TOKEN) 
  -version
        show application version
```

Diff Options:

```bash
fastly diff -help

Usage of diff:
  -version string
        specify Fastly service 'version' to verify against
```

Upload Options:

```bash
fastly upload -help

Usage of upload:
  -clone string
        specify Fastly service 'version' to clone from before uploading to
  -version string
        specify non-active Fastly service 'version' to upload to
  -latest
        use latest Fastly service version to upload to (presumes not activated)
```

## Environment Variables

The use of environment variables help to reduce the amount of flags required by the `fastly` CLI tool.

For example, I always diff against a 'stage' service in our Fastly account and so I don't want to have to put in the same credentials all the time.

Below is a list of environment variables this tool supports:

* `FASTLY_API_TOKEN` (`-token`)
* `FASTLY_SERVICE_ID` (`-service`)
* `VCL_DIRECTORY` (`-dir`)
* `VCL_MATCH_DIRECTORY` (`-match`)
* `VCL_SKIP_DIRECTORY` (`-skip`)

> Use the relevant CLI flags to override these values

## Makefile

To compile binaries for multiple OS architectures:

```bash
make compile
```

To start up a dockerized development environment (inc. Vim):

```bash
make dev
```

To install a local binary for testing (darwin):

```bash
make install
```

To remove all compiled binaries, vim files and containers:

```bash
make clean
```

## Examples

> Note: all examples presume FASTLY_API_TOKEN/FASTLY_SERVICE_ID env vars set

```bash
# view status for the latest service version
fastly -status latest

# view status for the specified service version
fastly -status 123

# view settings for the specified service version
# note: typically they're always the same across service versions
fastly -settings 123

# activate specified service version
fastly -activate 123

# diff local version against lastest remote version
fastly diff

# diff local version against specific remote version
fastly diff -version 123

# enable debug mode
# this will mean debug logs are displayed
# for 'diff' command this will also display the diff (per file)
fastly -debug diff -version 123

# upload local files to remote service version
fastly upload -version 123

# token and service explicitly set to override env vars
fastly -service xxx -token xxx upload -version 123

# clone specified service version and upload local files to it
fastly upload -clone 123

# upload local files to the latest remote service version
fastly upload -latest
```

## TODO

* Test Suite
* Ability to diff two remote services (not just local against a remote)
* Ability to upload an individual file (not just pattern matched list of files)
* Refactor flags (most flags under 'upload' subcommand should be moved out)
